people who are able to express their
ideas and thoughts easily and
impactfully are most often able to
influence their audiences in this video
I give you five tips on how you can be
an articulate speaker the first tip is
to control your speed what is very
common is people will Rush their
speaking speed when they step on stage
and this is due to a variety of reasons
namely that our hearts are racing
because we feel the nerves of presenting
in front of other people therefore we
often talk at a quicker Pace when we're
standing in front of a group of people
experienced speakers will be able to
slow down that pace and I'm not saying
you can never pick up the pace of your
speech for example if you're telling a
story about almost missing your train
and you're running through the train
station trying to get to that platform
on time of course you can speed up the
Cadence during that story or whenever it
permits but that should not be your
default speaking Pace you should be able
to speak with a few more pauses slower
so that the audience can truly absorb
what it is that you're saying and having
that ability to speed up your speech but
then also slow it down is going to have
a positive impact on your audience my
next tip is to allow for pauses in
between sentences and this ties into the
previous tip of slowing down the pace
but pauses in particular are important
because for most people they fill those
spaces where silence would be better
suited with filler words words like um
uh like and so but all of these words
are what we like to call filler or
crutch words within the Toast Masters
program and there are words or sounds
that we make because it can feel
uncomfortable to allow silence to happen
if we are speaking it's tough to just
let silence sink in it feels awkward but
the reality is it's not going to be
awkward for the audience what can be
distracting is when all of those filler
words are fit in between sentences
instead of the silence but by being able
to allow for silence between sentences
it's going to sound much more enjoyable
to your audience
my next tip to being an articulate
speaker is to really leverage body
language and vocal variety I've talked
about this in previous videos but the
nonverbal communication the things that
we do that are outside of actual words
that we say make up the majority of how
a message is communicated and this can
be done through several examples if I am
telling you that I'm very happy but I
have a frown on my face and my arm arms
are crossed you're probably thinking
wait you don't look very happy therefore
the body language is speaking louder
than the actual words that I say and
this is no different when it comes to
speaking in front of an audience or even
in onetoone conversations the best ways
to communicate are to use our body and
use our tone to really emphasize what it
is we're saying if we're saying that
we're having a great time we should
smile our eyes should light up that
should go along with the message that
we're saying or if we're talking about a
more serious or sad topic we should
probably reflect that in the voice that
we use and bringing our volume down and
slowing down those sentences and making
the facial gestures that match what it
is that we're talking about by
incorporating not only words but vocal
tone and body language that will help
you be a more articulate speaker my next
tip for being an articulate speaker is
to expand your vocabulary and I've
talked about this on a few of my recent
videos but the Toast Masters program has
this incredible concept with one of its
roles called the Garian and the role of
the Garian is to introduce a word of the
day to each meeting this may be a word
that you're familiar with but often it's
a word that you haven't previously heard
or used very often and the challenge for
that meeting is to incorporate the word
of the day in your speech but whether
you're a Toastmaster or not there are
ways you can take on this challenge even
on a daily basis miam Webster has a word
of the day function within their online
dictionary where each day it will give
you a unique word that you may not be
familiar with and I encourage you
regularly build this into one of your
habits where you check this word and
then you try try to utilize it
throughout the day by expanding your
vocabulary you're you will be a more
impactful communicator and a more
articulate speaker my final tip is to
take a moment take a breath before
responding especially when this has to
do with Q&A question and answers after
your presentation or in the middle of
your presentation depending where you
fit that in when we're standing on stage
and we receive a question from the
audience going back to the idea of being
uncomfortable with silence usually we
want to jump in and respond right away
but the problem with that is we need to
take a second and truly understand what
the question is and think a little bit
about our response there's a couple
bonus tips I have for you here of how
you can buy yourself a bit of time one
is to repeat the question which is great
because if the audience member doesn't
have a microphone repeating the question
question will allow everyone else to
know what was asked but it also buys you
a few extra seconds of time to think
about your response and another tip is
to have water on stage with you which is
a smart tip for any new speaker because
our mouths often go dry when we speak in
front of an audience but by having water
and having the question asked we can
take that moment take a sip of water put
the cap back on the bottle set it to the
side and we've just bought ourself a
about 3 extra seconds to think about the
question of what's being asked by taking
a moment to really think through what is
being asked of you before responding you
will come across as a better
Communicator I hope this quick video and
these five tips on how to be a more
articulate communicator and public
speaker were helpful to you if they were
let me know in the comments if you have
not yet subscribed to my Channel please
do that because it's my mission to bring
you great videos that are going to help
your communication skills and really
Empower you to take your public speaking
to the next level thank you so much for
taking the time to watch this video I
will catch you on the next one